[MUSIC]
>> Lukas: The big picture.
This is pretty close to
what is on the website.
I have just made it a bit more colorful,
but
these are the big pieces
that I want to call out.
So again, we have the template and
controller pair.
When I say controller, it's now
a component, which is just really a class.
And then you have the metadata
that binds those two together.
So in Angular 1 you had your template and
controller, and
you had scope kind of binding that
together and telling you basically
the controller and the template,
how they were going to behave.
Now you have template and component with
your metadata pulling those two together.
Then on one side you have the directive.
So a component is actually a directive
with a template attached to it.
You have a directive that just
is straight functionality, but
again is just a class that provides
functionality to an element.
And so think of it as essentially
a component without a template, or
you can think of a component as
a directive with a template.
But very similar, and you'll actually
start to see a lot of these common themes
as we go through these.
And then for a service is,
it's just a class.
The beauty of this is, your component,
your directive, and your service are just
classes that you then go in and
annotate to perform specific functions.
And so I find that when you
kind of stop and look at this,
you realize, there's not really
too many pieces on the board.
It's just services, components,
templates, directives, and
then you have the binding
that it's pretty simple.
And then you have essentially a module
that's wrapping everything that makes that
really kind of easy to not to be
as scared as when I first saw,
of like, we're killing everything!
And it's like,
what's it going to look like?
And it was really fuzzy at first.
But then once I kind of stopped and
thought about it in these terms, it became
a lot simpler and less intimidating.
Also, I forgot to mention,
this is the too long dint watch module,
so I'm going to talk quite a bit here.
I apologize for that.
But if anybody was going to at the end of
this module, close their laptop lid and
be like, I'm going to the beach, then you
could probably still, if you remember some
of these, make the case to your boss that
this was a good investment in your career.
So the main building blocks,
module, component, metadata,
template, data binding, service,
directive, and dependency injection.
So let's be about it.
So first and foremost,
let's talk about how to bootstrap the app.
This is the genesis of
an Angular 2 application.
In Angular 1 it was ng-app and
then you would put your module in.
In Angular 2 it's a little different.
You import the bootstrap module.
You import your dependencies for
your application.
Then you import your top level component.
So for every Angular application,
you have a top level component that
lives within your main page, and that's
like the entry point for your application.
And so in this case we're going to
call it, appropriately, app component.
And so it's kind of similar
in nature to Angular 1, but
we're importing the bootstrap module,
our router providers, and
AppComponent, which is
our top level component.
And we're just saying bootstrap.
We're calling this method.
We're passing in the AppComponent, so
we're saying bootstrap the application
with this AppComponent.
And here are the ROUTER_PROVIDERS as
a top level application dependency.
>> Lukas: And so now this leads to
the next question, well, what is a module?
Well, Angular 2 uses modules as
the core mechanism for composition.
Just like in Angular 1,
I think philosophically
it's just a mechanism for dividing up your
application and providing containers.
And we use the ES6 module syntax.
So not only do we have kind of this
philosophical construct of we're
organizing our application into modules,
but it comes with actual ES6.
We're using the ES6 mechanisms to do that.
So modules, they export things so
that we can import them in other places.
So in this case,
export class HomeComponent,
import HomeComponent from home.component.
So we'll start to look at the syntax.
This is just a tour of what we're
going to cover for the next two days.
So we have a module.
Now we have a component.
So modules should be fairly fine grained
and kind of single responsibility.
Within a module then you have
a component which is just an ES6 class.
And when you need a provider,
you just inject that
into the constructor of
your component class.
And we need to explicitly within our
metadata define what directives and
what providers we're using
when we decorate it.
You can also, and this is really neat,
hook into the actual application
lifecycle with component hooks.
And so
in this case we have the HomeComponent and
we're implementing the OnInit interface.
So this is some TypeScript kind of sugar.
We'll talk about TypeScript
in a little bit,
but this helps, I think, convey intent,
that HomeComponent implements OnInit, and
then you have the ngOnInit method, so
when you're application has initialized,
then essentially this method gets called.
It's a lifecycle hook that hey,
this thing is initialized,
let's go ahead and get this thing.
And then you can see here I'm injecting
the stateService in my constructor,
so now it's available for
the rest of my application.
As well as when you use an Angular
1.x controllerAs, your methods and
properties that exist on your controller
are now available to your template.
Same thing here, title, body, message,
now that's available to bind to in my
template, and updateMessage as well.
>> Lukas: And so this is a really neat
feature and this where TypeScript,
I think,
really earns its place at the lunch table,
is that TypeScript allows
us to decorate our class.
And so we have essentially our classes
that are either service or component or
directive that's for
the most part just JavaScript.
But then we can come in
very unobtrusively and
add in our metadata to
say we want this class.
We want to bind it or
point it to this component.
And they're just functions under the hood.
You can do this manually using ES6, ES5.
But I think the easiest thing to
do is just use TypeScript metadata
that gets compiled into something.
In ES6 they take that and
compile it into JavaScript that
the Angular compiler understands.
And so in the simplest case
is this looks almost like
a directory definition
object in Angular 1.x.
We're saying take this HomeComponent and
we want it to target this selector.
So when we see home in our HTML,
go ahead and
attach an initialize this component to
it and use this HomeComponent template.
So pretty simple, you have a class and
you're using metadata to basically bind
it to a template that Angular can then
render when it sees it in the view.
>> Lukas: Speaking of templates,
this again is just compiled HTML.
And two very interesting
things about Angular 2
templates is that it's leveraging DOM
native events, I mentioned that, and
properties, and so you have a lot
less Angular footprint in your code.
And it also leverages shadow DOM to do
some really interesting things in terms of
view encapsulation.
And so for instance, by default, that if
you define some styles on a component,
Angular will compile that to only
be applied to that component.
So you're actually allowed to
encapsulate particular styling and
various markup things for that.
And what that does is it'll go through and
kind of generate kind of this
quasi-shadow DOM under the hood for you.
>> Lukas: And so again, you have the
template, the metadata, the component, and
then we have property bindings that
bind properties from the component to
the template.
And then the template can bind to events
and pass those into the component.
And so
here is another example of some metadata.
You could put styles in here inline.
So these styles that we've defined here is
now specific to the experiment component,
so it's been encapsulated.
Or you can say I would
prefer not to have that and
actually have this be
applied across the board.
You can set ViewEncapsulation to none.
>> Lukas: So we're gonna take
a small detour quickly and
we're gonna talk about best practices.
In Angular 1 when I did a directive,
I would actually separate out my
template into a separate file.
And my reasoning was that it was
easier for designers, UI types,
to go and do my markup while
I build out my component.
With Angular 2,
that sentiment has changed, so
you can still use template URL.
But it's considered best practice to
keep your components very small and
very specific insomuch that the markup for
that component can
fit comfortably with inline
within your component metadata.
And so the idea is that if all the sudden
now your inline template is becoming
painful to work on, or it's like, this is
80 lines of HTML in this inline template,
you might wanna stop and be like, maybe it
makes sense to actually break this out and
kind of use this as a metric for
am I doing so much in this component?
So that is kind of the generally
accepted best practices.
I think that is influenced from React and
how they think about components
is that keep your components so
small that the templates for
them comfortably fit within the component.
One caveat to that I've personally found,
this is not gospel,
is that forms generally come with just
a lot of markup, and so if you are doing
a non-trivial form, then I probably would
pull that out into a separate file.
But by doing it inline,
everything gets completely compiled and
it will save you an actual
async request as well.
So there's some performance
considerations there.